* byu-cas
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: byu-cas
  :END:

A Clojure library to simplify connection to BYU CAS for authentication.

(link to auto-generated docs: https://byu-odh.github.io/byu-cas/)

** Installation
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: installation
   :END:

[byu-odh/byu-cas "4"]

** Usage
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: usage
   :END:

*** Most common case
    :PROPERTIES:
    :CUSTOM_ID: most-common-case
    :END:

Wrap your app in =wrap-cas=, set the timeout to 120 minutes (BYU
guideline), then wrap that in =wrap-session= and =wrap-params=, which
=wrap-cas= needs to function correctly.

#+BEGIN_EXAMPLE
  (defn app []
   (-> handler
       (wrap-cas {:timeout 120})
       (wrap-session)
       (wrap-params)))
#+END_EXAMPLE

Note that the user's NetID will be available under =:username= in the
request map.

** Logging Out
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: logging-out
   :END:

The first thing you need to understand is that any user who logs in with
your application is logged into /two/ systems---both your app and "BYU
in general," i.e. the *C*entral *A*uthentication *S*erver.

In the majority of cases, you would rather not think about this and
would like "log out of our app" to be functionally equivalent to "log
out of BYU," so we'll treat that case first.

*** What logging out is
    :PROPERTIES:
    :CUSTOM_ID: what-logging-out-is
    :END:

To log a user out of your app and out of CAS, you need to - end the
session, either by having them delete their session cookie, or by
removing the session store on your app's server.\\
- redirect them to the logout endpoint of BYU's CAS system,
https://cas.byu.edu/cas/logout"

=byu-cas= provides a function, =logout-resp=, which does both---though
you likely won't need to call it.

*** Easy Logout Setup
    :PROPERTIES:
    :CUSTOM_ID: easy-logout-setup
    :END:

**** Timeout
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: timeout
     :END:

BYU's CAS policies, which can be found
[[https://it.byu.edu/nav_to.do?uri=%2Fkb_view.do%3Fsys_kb_id%3Deac4e9f90a0a3c0e4b937e7cc6b49811][here]],
specify a two-hour timeout period (achieved by adding =:timeout 120= to
the =options= map of =wrap-cas=). If =:timeout= is set, =byu-cas= logs
the time when a user is authenticated, and after the specified time
period, logs them out by destroying their session and redirecting their
next request to CAS's logout endpoint.

**** URL
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: url
     :END:

Simply add =logout=true= as a query parameter,
i.e. http://myapp.byu.edu/somepage?logout=true, and =wrap-cas= will
detect it and redirect the user to the main CAS endpoint (WITHOUT
processing the request).

** How CAS works
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: how-cas-works
   :END:

CAS can be a little hairy; if you need to do anything out of the
ordinatry, the following links should be useful.

- [[https://apereo.github.io/cas/development/protocol/CAS-Protocol.html][Webflow
  diagram]]
- [[https://apereo.github.io/cas/6.2.x/protocol/CAS-Protocol-Specification.html][Protocol
  Specification]]
- [[https://apereo.github.io/cas/6.2.x/installation/Logout-Single-Signout.html][On
  Logging Out]]

** License
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: license
   :END:

Copyright © 2020 BYU Office of Digital Humanities

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.
